	We are proud to announce the birth of "GNU LilyPond 0.1", a.k.a.

		Lily 0.1

	born August 1, 1997

	daughter to Jan 'Janneke' Nieuwenhuizen and Han-Wen 'Wendy'
	Nienhuys

Lily is a healthy, bouncing baby weighing 335 kilobytes

Visiting hours: 24hrs a day at

	ftp://pcnov095.win.tue.nl/pub/lilypond/lilypond-0.1.tar.gz
	ftp://prep.gnu.ai.mit.edu/pub/gnu/lilypond-0.1.tar.gz

you can see some babyfood, diapers and pictures at

	http://www.stack.nl/~hanwen/lilypond/index.html

You can send your congratulations to Janneke (jan@digicash.com) and
Wendy (hanwen@stack.nl)


[ And now the serious part ]

	Announcing
			
	GNU LilyPond

	The Music Typesetter

Do you pine for the nice days of Linux 0.95, when men were men and
wrote their own applications? Are you without a nice project and just
dying to cut your teeth into a bleeding edge application you can
modify for your needs?  Do you find it frustrating that everything
works in LaTeX?  No more all-nighters to get a nifty program working?
Then this post might be just for you!

I have been working very hard on a music typesetting system (called
GNU LilyPond) the past half year, and I finally think it is ready to be
used and hacked at by a larger public than me and my co-developer.

Sources for this project are on:

	ftp://pcnov095.win.tue.nl/pub/lilypond/

detailed info and examples can be found on the webpage at:

	http://www.stack.nl/~hanwen/lilypond/index.html

It isn't flashy, but then I wasn't born to be a webartist.


[DETAILED DESCRIPTION]

WHAT IS GNU LilyPond?

GNU LilyPond which converts music definition files into visual or
audio output: it can typeset formatted sheet music to a TeX file and
and (mechanical) performances to MIDI files.

WHY?

We want to create tools which can produce production quality scores
and parts of public music. We haven't quite reached that goal:

* The quality of the output isn't good enough yet due to
some (still) insophisticated algorithms

* A number of features haven't been implemented (although they can be
quite simple)

We Want You!  You can become a user, but we'd really appreciate to
have some Hackers to help advance our project more quickly.

WHAT IS NEEDED?

for compilation you need

	Unix. (windows32 is known to work, too)
	GNU C++ v2.7 or better, with libg++ installed.
	GNU make. 
	Flex (2.5.1 or better). 
	Bison. (1.25 or better)

for running you need

	TeX
	MusiXTeX fonts 

The MusiXTeX fonts are part of the MusiXTeX package version T.73,
available at http://www.gmd.de/Misc/Music/ 

WHAT CAN LILYPOND DO?

ASCII script input (mudela), with identifiers (for music reuse),
customizable notenames

MIDI output lets you check if you have entered the correct notes.
MIDI to Mudela conversion through the mi2mu program.

Multiple staffs in one score. Each staff can have a different meters.
Multiple voices within one staff (up to four handled graciously);
beams optionally shared between voices.  Multiple scores within one
input file. Each score is output to a different file.

Beams, slurs, chords, super/subscripts (accents and text), 
general n-plet (triplet, quadruplets, etc.), lyrics, transposition
dynamics (both absolute and hairpin style), clef changes, meter
changes, cadenza-mode, key changes, repeat bars

Integration with LaTeX through scripts.



