1.3.111.jcn3
============

* Allow two consecutive glissandi.

* Note_head_line_engraver now also listenes to \property
"followThread": Automagically connect note-heads when thread switches
staff.

* Fixed american-chords example (except for o/, that waits for kerning fix).

* Added simple glissando line.

* Bugfix: broken [crescendo] text spanner.

* Bugfix: chord tremolos

* Bugfix: staff group brace

* Bugfix: volta repeats

* Resurrected clef _8 and ^8 syntax.  (This should be deprecated?)

1.3.111
=======

* Fixed non-empty-text feature.

* Bugfix for Grob::has_extent_callback_b ()

* Added infrastructure for music property documentation strings.

* Syntax change: \notenames -> \pitchnames

* Changed syntax \push -> \override, \pop -> \revert. Add:

	\property Context.Element \set #'foo = #bar

which  does a \revert followed by a \override.

* Documentation updates.

* Fixed typechecks for \push, \pop and \property

* Bugfix: Local_key_engraver.

* Fixes for lilypond-mode.el (patch by Mark Hindley)

1.3.110
=======

* Fixed a mysterious typo in toplevel index.

* Enabled property-engraver.

* Cleanup in Auto-beam-engraver (still broken, because timings are off?)

* Collapsed all ``void Foo::create_grobs () { deprecated_process_music
(); }'' occurences, and reactivated some disabled code (note-name,
chord-name, custos, lyrics).  Reactivated Timing_translator using
process_music ().

1.3.109.hwn1
============

* unsmob_element -> unsmob_grob

* Make a Slur::height callback, to prevent early brew_molecule
call. This fixes cross-staff slurs.

* Bugfix: custodes style must be symbol, not string.

* do_creation_processing () -> initialize (), do_removal_processing ()
-> finalize ().  Remove (do_)add_processing.

* Move Relative_octave_music::last_pitch_ into SCM, junk
Transposed_music::to_pitch_, junked Time_scaled_music::{den_i_,
num_i_}, Rhythmic_req::duration_, Melodic_req::pitch_

1.3.109
=======

* Bugfix: resurrected point-and-click. 

* Use scheme object props for storing type predicates and doc-strings
Dump global lists of properties into auto-documentation.

* Bugfix: extent callback for Rest, so  ledger lines don't disappear for
rest-collisions.

* Removed some hair from chord code

* Rewrite of engraver pass scheme: try to make graphical objects in
acknowledge_element()/process_acknowledged(), not in process_music()

* Remove Translator::status_ and associated code. Removes the need for
various XXXX functions as wrapper for do_XXX functions.

* Search replace: Score_element -> Grob (Graphical object),
{pre,post}_move_processing -> {stop,start}_translation_timestep,
do_try_music -> try_music.

1.3.108
=======

* Dropped ly_lists_equal for gh_equal_

* Removed Array from chord.

* Small bugfix to lilypond-mode.

* lily/part-combine-music-iterator.cc: fixed (switch `combineParts'
property on), and removed Array.

1.3.107.uu1
===========

* Bugfix: don't call Crescendo::brew_molecule () too early if there is
an absolute dynamic.

* Rename class Crescendo to Hairpin.

* Search/replace: Musical_pitch -> Pitch 

* More links in the backend documentation.

1.3.106.jcn2
============

* Cross compilation and info build fixes, really cancel all builtin
rules, sigh.

* Generated documentation fixes: Generate all interface descriptions,
separately, don't list non-set interface properties with element
descriptions.

1.3.106.hwn1
============

* Deprecate `mudela' name: rename mudela to lilypond globally.

* construct Music_iterators decentrally.

* Make smob of Duration 

* Make smob of Musical_pitch.

* Move Repeated_music members into SCM. Length is computed via a SCM
function. (todo: write SCM function to unfold all repeats. \apply for
\midi)

* Remove Time_signature_change_req, \time is disguise for \property
Score.timeSignatureFraction = ...

* \property barCheckNoSynchronize: don't reset measurePosition when
finding a bbarcheck. This makes bar-checks for polyphonic music
easier.

* elt property full-size-change for clefs.

* Bugfix: use Stem::dim_callback (), so brew_molecule () is not called
too early.

* Bugfix: use extent of Note_head (iso. Note_column) for rest
collisions, so Stem::brew_molecule() is not called too early.

1.3.105.jcn1
============

* Makeinfo html documentation generation fixes.

1.3.105.uu1
===========

* Remove Bar_req, \bar is now a frontend to setting Score.whichBar

* Move Context_specced_music::translator_{type,id}_str_ into music
properties.

* Don't make line breaks during note playing.

* Clef engraver rewrite. Clef-engraver is now controlled through
properties clefPosition, clefGlyph, clefOctavation. The \clef command
is just a front-end to these, see scm/lily.scm, function
clef-name-to-properties.  See also input/test/manual-clef.ly

1.3.105
=======

* Bit of temporary makefile hacking to stay in sync with makeinfo patch.

* Separate interface description (test phase).

* Makeinfo --html split fix: http://appel.lilypond.org/fred/software/texinfo-4.0.jcn2.diff

* Use headers for makeinfo html output.

* Made some --scrdir build fixes.

1.3.104.uu1
===========

* Smobified molecule, and cache molecule (ie. generate each molecule
only once).  Lily should be faster now. (approx. 6 % ?)

* Coded properties-to-font-name in C++. Measured speedup: 14% (wtk1-fugue2)

* Use music properties for Request data.

1.3.104
=======

* Documentation build fix: don't run LilyPond when generating plain info doc.

* Resurrected info documentation and made cross links between manual
and generated doco, some small fixes.

* Made small time signature style fix.

* Generate texinfo iso html documentation.

* Added x-references for elements->engravers and engravers->contexts.

* Fixed number font listing in style sheet.

* Fixed default font settings for text items, text-item now uses
font-interface's alist-chain.

* Renamed property AutoBeam to autoBeamSettings to avoid confusion
about non-existing AutoBeam element.

* Mensural clefs (courtesy Juergen Reuter)

1.3.103.lec1
============

* abc2ly enhancements

	* %%LY comments

	* explanation of rationale for %%MIDI nobarlines

	* supports -8va as a syntax for tenor clef

	* pushing the Staff.timeSignatureStyle property

	* parses space between key letter and mode in K: statement

	* default for guitar chords is above the staff

	* fix for translation of :: repeat

1.3.103
=======

* Translated auto-beam properties to alist.

* Rewrite of tfmtoafm in scm.

* Rewrite of emacs LilyPond mode, based upon auctex interface.

* Chord name fixes and additions (Atte Andr'e Jensen)

* ly-get-mus-property, ly-set-mus-property: set properties of Music

* Move Span_req::span_dir_ into Scheme

* removed numberOfStaffLines, staffSpace. Use StaffSymbol \push
staff-space, line-count

* removed minVerticalAlign, maxVerticalAlign; use VerticalAlignment
\push #'threshold = #(MIN . MAX)

* \property tremoloFlags can be set anywhere now

* \apply #function music 

* Bugfix: padding of dots.

* Generate documentation for separate engravers as well as for contexts.

* Move some reference manual into the  SCM documentation system.

* Bugfix: fixed hyphen spanners.

1.3.102
=======

* Fixed bracket, and made some other PostScript code fixes.

* Silly font initialisation fix for paper19 non-feature.

* Automatic engraver/property documentation infrastructure. 

* Fixed system-start braces

* Fix for forgetAccidentals: do print accidentals, just don't remember
them.

* Bugfix: forced script directions for scripts that have relative stem-direction.

* Bugfix: Tie_column doesn't force Tie directions ties that already
have a direction.

* Bugfix: multimeasure rest 

1.3.101
=======

* Custodes (patch by Juergen Reuter), mods by hwn.

* Font initialisation and markup translation fixes. (99.jcn2)

* Remove staffspace calls. Removed markScriptPadding. Fixes some
problems with tuplet, brace and volta spanners.

* make Font_interface::font_alist_chain (), and use default font
settings. Fixes too large time sigs.

1.3.100
=======

* Tweaks of .scm font-selection. 

* Rewrote font management of Score_element and Paper_def.

* Introduced outputscale: internally do computation in terms of
outputscale.  Prepare to deprecate staffspace internally.  Rewrote
.scm side of font selectioning. 

1.3.99.jcn1
===========

* Made several font size and initialisation fixes.

* Renamed all occurrences of font-size to font-relative-size

* Renamed all occurrences of font-point to font-point-size

* Fixed interface.scm descriptions to use symbols iso strings

* Fixes for chord names, and added jazz style (James Hammons)

* Some font-size fixes.

* Added dynamics font in all staff-sizes.

* Quick fix for regtest.

1.3.98.hwn2
===========

* Removed all paper vars except linewidth, indent, staffspace and
stafflinethickness.

* Rewrote Scheme side of font-selection.

* Bugfix: deprecate group-center-element thoroughly.

* Bugfix: LeftEdge must also have Break_align_item::alignment_callback
X-offset-callback.

* Add use music property "direction" for storing direction in
Script_req, use music property "text-type" for storing 'dynamic,
'finger, etc. Remove Dynamic_script_req. Resurrect fingerings.

1.3.98.lec1
===========

* fixed scale-definition.ly for greek mode names.

1.3.98
======

* Backend documentation updates and related cleanups

* Removed \property bracketCollapseHeight, systemStartDelimiterGlyph

* Bugfix: instrument-name on grandstaffs, see
input/test/instrument-name-grandstaff.ly

* Bugfix for tie/staffline collision.

* Bugfix: also send out end-repeat if there are no alternatives.

* Small solo cello suite fixes.

1.3.97.jcn1
===========

* Added some interface documentation.

* Added raise and kern to markup.  This should make Chord names usable.

1.3.97
======

* Made small fixes to basic properties: regression-test compiles.

* Moved Text_script_req's text_ member into mus-property.

* Renamed ChordName to ChordNames, for consistency.

* Resurrected most of chord names, superscripting and kerning
  is currently broken, though.

* Junked all old style text lookups, except for feta definitions.

* Added support for name-based character lookups.

* Added support for font styles and papersize style sheets.

* Added new code for font selection and scm text markup.  Only used
  for testing in \textscript SCM. See input/test/markup.ly.

* Fixed (added actually, it got lost?) word-space for chords.

* Added slope-limit and attachment-offset properties to slur.

* Slur's broken trend now weighs in the number of note-columns.

* Spacing tweaks

1.3.96.hwn1
===========

* Mudela-book fixes (Tom Cato Amundsen)

* Put marks above chords.

* Solaris fix.

* Type checking for \push and \pop; elt property description (docs
inclusive) is now in Scheme.

* Self-documenting backend using ly/generate-documentation.ly

1.3.96
======

* Added friendly message for the clueless dvips user.

* Clef-engraver: changed c0-position, clef-position and glyph into properties,
  enabling ottava spanners: input/test/ottava.ly.

* Added option for edge lines to Text spanner.

* Bugfix for early initialisation of invalid (grace->voice) slur.

* Dropped text support and padding of crescendo symbol.  Horizontal
  alignment of dynamics is handled by side-support, Text crescendos
  use the generic Text spanner.

* Added a generic Text spanner.

1.3.95.hwn1
===========

* Bugfix: octavate eight.

* Rewrote arpeggio.

* mudela-book fixes (Tom Cato)

* Cleaned up Group_interface and Pointer_group_interface

* Add accidentals to arpeggio support.

* Stemup + barline combination gets extra space.

* Score_element::extent () now takes a reference point argument.

1.3.95
======

* Use music property for setting type. This prevents accidental
forgotten copies.

1.3.94.jcn3
===========

* Added Arpeggio and Trill elements to feta font.

* Yet another bugfix for output-property (Han-Wen)

* Made some fixes to les-nereides.

* Fixed output-property (Dankje).

* Added backend framework for arpeggios.

* Fixes for les-nereides.  Should we do asymmetric slurs...?

* Don't print repeat bars at start of line.

1.3.94
======

1.3.93.uu1
==========

* Bugfix: don't crash if there is no volta bracket to end.

* Move offset, dimension callbacks into Scheme.  They can be initialized from basicXXXX properties using

	(X-offset-callbacks . (callback1 callback2 .. .))
	(Y-offset-callbacks . (callback1 callback2 .. .))
	(X-extent-callback . callback1) 
	(Y-extent-callback . callback1)

* naming: basicXXXProperties -> XXX, some other changes in naming;
convert-mudela rules added.

* naming: \voiceone -> \voiceOne and related changes. convert-mudela
rules added

* syntax: \property XXX \pop #'bla -> \property Context.XXX \pop #'bla

* changed aclocal.m4 to have better check for guile version. (Laura Conrad)

* updates for mudela-book (Tom Cato Amundsen)

1.3.93.jcn1
===========

* Try at nastiest competition piece: input/les-nereides.ly.

* Moved Pedal_engraver to Staff context.

1.3.93
======

* Added some error messages for toplevel and stray string parse errors.

* Don't start more than one slur at a time.

* Set direction of Slur too in a2-engraver.

1.3.92.hwn1
===========
* Removed calls to global GUILE namespace.

* Added \property: scriptDefinitions, explicitClefVisibility,
explicitKeySignatureVisibility, instrumentEqualizer,
dynamicAbsoluteVolumeFunction

* Added element properties Bar::break-glyph-function,
Break_align_item::space-alist, Chord_name::chord-name-function

* Added \property combineParts: part combiner switched off by default.

* Remove all print methods.

* Use Scope::try_retrieve if possible.

* Remove FAQ in favor of URL.

* etf2ly.py robustness fixes.

* Don't compensate for left edge in broken volta spanner.

1.3.92
======

* RPM .spec fixes.

* italiano.ly

* mudela-book updates by Tom Cato Amundsen.

* Allow lyric hara kiri as well.

* Bugfix: left/right mixup  in Side_position_interface::aligned_on_self ()

* rest collision of differing rests.

* Cleanup of Sequential_music_iterator, Simple_music_iterator.

* Unfolded_repeat_iterator now signals repeats using \property
  repeatCommands. You could override this, eg.

	\property Score.repeatCommands = #'((volta "X") start-repeat)

  will print a |: and a volta bracket saying X. See also
  input/test/manual-volta.ly
  
* Volta_engraver, Repeat_acknowledge_engraver: new engravers that are
controlled by repeatCommands; much cleaner than the Repeat_engraver.

* Junked Repeat_engraver.

1.3.91.jcn1
===========
* Abort all running spanners when part-combiner combines voices.

1.3.91
======

* Use S_ISDIR () and check for stat.h.

* Various fixes for RedHat 7.0 / gcc 2.96.54

* separate basic propertylist for fingerings, center them on
noteheads.

* Side_position_interface::aligned_on_self() now can take a real
number for self-alignment-{X,Y}.

* etf2ly: single line GF field.

1.3.90.mb1
===========

* Added an interscorelinefill paper variable. Set to a positive number 
  in order to stretch the inter-line spacing to fill the full pages,
  except for the last page (where it would look really ugly).

1.3.89.jcn1
===========

* Changed lilypond to LilyPond in ly2dvi, Mudela to LilyPond source.

* Website fixes: Changed \interline to \staffspace in manual, removed offending
  braces from mudela-book.tely.

* Fixed slur attachment correction bug.

* Made some fixes to Coriolan.

1.3.89.hwn1
===========

* Only open files, not directories 

* bugfix: textNonEmpty.

* Look ahead in auto-change iterator for rests. This means rests
before the note leading to an automatic staff switch are switched as
well (improves the looks of scarlatti-test).  Associated fixes and
additions for  Music_iterator::skip () and friends.

* Bugfix: only quantise staccato inside the staff. 

* cleanups for beam and stem. Removed global GUILE namespace calls
from Beam and Stem.

1.3.89
======

* Some fixes to Coriolan.

* Fixed some stupid core dumps processing Coriolan.

* Fixed several problems with part-combiner's part-switching.

* Fixes for ASCII output.

* Added feature to part combiner that should allow part-switching only
  for entire measures.  Currently, it is controlled by a new 
  property changeMoments (A . B):
    - only switch when !(A mod now),
    - decide whether to switch based on music during time period B.

* Made bugfix: Sequential_iterator::get_music (M): mustn't return music 
  later than M.

* Added skip (M) to some iterators.

* maintain minimum-length by shifting for hyphens at start of
line. (patch courtesy Christophe Rhodes)

* mudela-book fixes (courtesy Tom Cato Amundsen): documentation
update, LaTeX example, landscape support.

1.3.88.hwn2
===========

* Added elt properties for Tie:
  - details
  - x-gap
  - staffline-clearance

* Added elt properties for Slur
  - y-free
  - details

* Removed C++ support for barNumberScriptPadding, now in
generic-property.scm (but they're deprecated anyway)

* Changed threshold in Align_interface to be in staffspace 

* changed minVerticalAlign and maxVerticalAlign to be in staffspace.
A better way: do \push #'threshold = #(cons A B ).  (WARNING:
INCOMPATIBLE CHANGE)

* moved translator definitions out of \paper { }, only instantiate in
\paper.

1.3.88
======

* Sequential_iterator::get_music (), part combiner now works.

* Changed paper variables into elt properties:
  Beam:
  - beam-space-function, Removed Paper_def::interbeam_f(), Smaller
  beams for grace notes.
  - beam-flag-width-function to Beam.

  Grace_align_item:
  -  horizontal-space: spacing of grace notes is configurable

  Volta_spanner: 
  - height
  - thickness 

  Multi_measure_rest:
  - expand-limit
  - minimum-width
  - padding

  Lyric_extender:
  - height

  Stem
  - thickness 

  Collision
  -  note-width to Collision

* removed various obsolete variables from params.ly

* added input/test/bagpipe.ly

1.3.87
======

* Made fixes to part-combine examples and Coriolan.

* Bugfix: don't dump core on unterminated (de)crescendo.

* Rolled next (M) also into get_music (M), similar to process (M), so that
  sequential-music-iterator::get_music (M) returns something useful.

* Bugfix: part-combiner still expected Music_sequence, where get_music ()
  now returns plain list of events.

1.3.86.hwn3
===========

* Fixed problem with disappearing crescendi across line break.

* Bugfix: dynamic texts should not be set by text-engraver. 

* Rewrote and cleaned up music-iterator.

* etf2ly robustness fixes.

1.3.85.hwn2
===========

* Added side-position-interface as an interface identifier, in stead
of checking side-support-elements. This fixes a problem with stacked
text scripts.

* Removed spurious set_elt_property ("XX", SCM_EOL) calls.

* Added \property squashedPosition for Pitch_squash_engraver: the
staff-position number to squash noteheads to.

* Added FAQ entry for script on bar, updated description of mailing
lists.

* Fixed bug with \translator { basicXXXProperties \push ... }

* Updated and revised call for help in hacking.texi.

* Bugfix: don't remember accidental if it is tied from the previous note.

1.3.85
======

* Separated definition and implementation of contexts (moved
definition out of Translator_group into Translator_def)

* pmx2ly.py fixes: now handles text at beginning of block correctly.

* update .spec to include scripts. 

* Changed syntax of \pushproperty:

	\property Voice.basicXXXProperties \push #'foo = #bar
	\property basicXXXProperties \pop #'foo

	\translator {
		basicXXXProperties \push #'foo = #bar
		basicXXXProperties \pop #'foo
	}

1.3.84.jcn1
===========

* Updated INSTALL.texi

1.3.80.tca1
===========
* Added Documentation/user/mb-latex.tex, mudela-book+latex example
  file and test case. Some work on Documentation/user/mudela-book.tely

* mudela-book.py: any combination of \verb, \begin{verbatim}
  @code and @example and mudela should work as expected. 

* dropped [].extend that depend on python 1.5.2

1.3.84
======

* pmx2ly, PMX to LilyPond conversion. Succesfully converts barsant.pmx.

* musedata2ly, a Musedata to LilyPond convertor. Succesfully converts
wtk1-fugue2

* bugfixes for dynamics: make sure that dynamic alignments encompass
the dynamics they support, and that any columns they attach to aren't
prematurely killed.

* bugfix: make sure \time gets noticed early enough.

1.3.83
======

* small doc updates.

* Cleanups related to barline handling:

  - Removed Translator_group::get_simple_translator (), and -

  - use properties to communicate about barlines and time sigs. (NOTE:
    by default a time-signature of 4/4 is printed.)

  - fix repeat bar behavior.


* cleaned up Directional_element_interface

* add name field to score-elements.

* comment in some unprotects for Music in parser. Should bring down
  cpu time and plug some leaks.

* robustness fixes for etf2ly, tuplets, grace notes. 

1.3.82
======

* engraver.ly: cleanups.

* etf2ly: robustness fixes, handle mac files as well.

* Smobified Translator and Translator_group, junked
Translator_group_identifier.

* \pushproperty and \popproperty withing \translator, similar to
predefining \property, ie.

	\translator { [...] \pushproperty [..] }
	\translator { [...] \popproperty [..] }

(these \pushes and \pops are delayed until instantiation, so if you do


	\score {
		\pushproperty #'basicFooProperties #'bla #VALUE1
		\context Voice { \pushproperty #'basicFooProperties #'bar #VALUE2
			[..]
		}
	}

then the setting for basicFooProperties contains both (bla . VALUE1)
and (bar . VALUE2).

* allow \pushproperty #'symbol [..] as well as \pushproperty #'(symbol1 symbol2 ... )

1.3.81.jcn1
===========

* Activated regex for windows.

* New guile-1.4 patch for cross windows build.

* Added configure messages for metapost checking.

1.3.81
======
1.3.80.gp1
==========

* Added property LyricVoice.associatedVoice to enable switching associated
  voice mid-stream. Association still defaults to context name.

1.3.80.hwn1
===========

* \pushproperty, \popproperty: property settings with less memory
cost. See input/test/pushproperty.ly and Documentation/hacking. Note:
syntax is most likely only temporary.

1.3.80.jcn1
===========

* (Line-)broken slurs now have vertical trend.

* Better length for broken ties: no invisibly short ties.  Now ties may
  collide with time signatures, though.

* Don't typeset unfinished spanners, but kill them.

* Added two FAQs (Mats)

* Made workaround guile-1.4.1 backward incompatible (scm_)eval change.
  Note that we must use (scm_)eval2 to remain backwards compatible with
  guile < 1.4.1 snapshot.

* Reincluded 79.jcn2 fix

1.3.80
======

1.3.79.jcn5
===========

* Created Thread_devnull_engraver and Voice_devnull_engraver iso
  single A2_devnull_engraver in Thread context.  It seems however
  that the hack in A2_devnull_engraver works better.

* Coriolan fixes.

* Slur attachment fix for chords where case slurdir != stemdir.

* Made various fixes for (line-)broken slurs.

* Fixed slur_height (), which fixes most ugly slurs (Yeah!).

* Fixed some silly url reversals in FAQ.

* Finished Coriolan music entry (again); entered second viola part.

* Updated Coriolan to use part combiner on Voice level for wind parts
  and on Staff level for violi and bassi.

* Part-combiner now uses duration inquiry, which fixes rhythm-related
  bugs in determining solo/a2.  Also, rests are taken into account.

* Another crude fix for almost unexplainable (with a gdb that dumps
  core on ly_display_scm) all-zero control points slurs.

* Fixed slurs that crossed through stems and note heads.  Note
  that beautifying of ugly slurs is still broken.

* Made crude fixes slurs don't crash, bezier still crashes on
  infinitely steep slurs (eg flauti-part *with* slur_engraver).

1.3.79.gp1
==========

* Replaced empty melisma score element with a property

* Renamed Voice_alist_entry -> Syllable_group in lyric-phrasing-engraver

1.3.79.uu1
==========

* fixed y-position of whole rest

* fixed sustainPedalPadding

* etf2ly: articulation, lyrics.

1.3.79
======

* etf2ly.py: Finale to LilyPond conversion.

1.3.78.jcn4
===========

* Made simple fix to get part-combiner to recognise different rhythms

* Unhardcoded part combiner and a2-engraver; introduced properties
  splitInterval, soloADue, soloText, soloIIText, aDueText.

* Fixed part combiner's too-late problem (Dankje!)

* Fixed a2-devnull-engraver, a2-engraver.

* Renamed part combiner music names to "one", "two".

* Cleaned up decision making in part combiner, renamed to "solo"/"unison"

1.3.77.mb1
==========

* Minor documentation updates

* Mark_engraver: has been broken since .73, fixed!

1.3.78
======

* Added a devnull engraver, that junks (notehead) requests of the second
  stem when combined parts are in unison (a2).

* Part-combine iterator identifies Soli and A2 parts in threads by 
  looking at rhythm and pitches.  It switches Voice context automagically,
  and communicates current state using a2/solo/solo2 properties.

* Simple A2_engraver (`a due) prints `a2/Solo/Solo II.  Soli seem to
  arrive one request late.

* First try at combining parts: part-combine*

* fixed problem with HaraKiri

* fixed problem with dynamicDirection

* fixed problem with nonEmptyText 

* `Fixed' chord notation, as per request of David Arnold, ie, 
   Added a chord-name-mode, that only displays chord names
   when there's a change in the chord-name-scheme, Also, a chord
   name should always be displayed after a line break.  See

       input/test/drarn-chords.ly

* Reverted duration-iter change in midi2ly, moved printing of options.

* warning bugfix in lexer.ll (Mats Bengtsson)

1.3.77
======

* Midi2ly bugfix: handle durations longer than longa.  These can occur
  because of lengthened notes when using --no-rests.

* Midi2ly: output `new' \key syntax, and updated version number.

* Midi2ly bugfix: don't correct quantised durations, don't use tuplets, 
  double dots etc. when user doesn't want them.  It probably used to
  work like this, a long time ago.  For some unknown reason, all
  corrections made by Duration_convert were junked if the corrected
  duration != exact duration.  Duh.

* Midi2ly: added a new option: --no-rests.

* Update of mudela-book (Tom Cato Amundsen)
 - --read-lys option, now you can do:
 	mudela-book file.texi
	convert-mudela
	mudela-book --read-lys
 - --outdir=DIR will put ALL output into DIR
 - @mudela[filename="myfilename"]{c d e f g}
 - --force-mudela-fontsize
 - ignore mudela inside @ignore @end ignore

1.3.76.gp1
==========

* Lyric_phrasing_engraver now catches lyric extenders and correctly
  terminates them under the last note of a melisma.

* Lyric word spacing code changed to fix hyphen alignment.

* Other minor tidying up of Lyric_phrasing_engraver and related code.

1.3.76
======

* Lyric_phrasing_engraver now adjusts for melisma.  (Glen Prideaux).

* Mudela-book fix for Windows95 (Mark Hindley)

* Debian update (Anthony Fok)

* Added beam melisma for when automaticMelismata and noAutoBeaming are both
  #t (primarily for hymns).  Courtesy Glen Prideaux.

* Bugfix: .pfa dependency on $(outdir)/mfplain.mem

1.3.75.mb1
==========

* stepmake/stepmake/metapost-rules.make: Put all generated files
  in mf/out/.

* Added paper variable interscoreline to determine the score line
  spacing, see input/test/vertical-extent.ly.
  Cleaned up the lilyponddefs.tex inclusion scheme.

1.3.75
======

1.3.74.gp1
==========

* Improved default handling of Lyric_phrasing_engraver and made it on by 
default.

* Beginnings of a stanza number engraver (\property LyricVoice.stanza = 
#"1:" etc.)

* fixed bug in script.cc so fermata (and other scripts) get flipped 
correctly when they are above the staff.

1.3.74.jcn2
===========

* Reincluded simple code for including tfm.[1-5] into search path.
  Configure with --disable-kpathsea to enable this kludge.

1.3.74.jcn1
===========

* Updated input/test/banter-chords.ly German H/B example.

* Updated nl.po.

* Have configure check for kpathsea library and functions.  Made kpathsea
  support optional for now.

* Bugfix: halved width of tremolo-beams.
 
* Included compilation fix for guile-1.3.4 (Anthony).

* Added: chord inversion and base to regtest.

* Fixed: Chord names that were broken by pl73.

* Fixed: Chord inversions that were broken by pl72.

* Resurrected ascii-script output, for debugging purposes.

* Included compilation fix for scm-hash.cc (Han-Wen).


1.3.74
======

* Small bugfix: also do a deep copy on  submusices

* Fixed:  \autochange doesn't crash anymore.

* Cleanup, documentation and enforcement of smob interfaces in
LilyPond.  We distinguish between SIMPLE_SMOBS and SMOBS (objects that
have self_scm_)

* Glen Prideaux lyric phrasing engraver. See
input/test/lyric-phrasing.ly

1.3.73
======
* Removed \interscoreline after the last line, prevents some
empty pages. (patch by Mats Bengtsson)

* Smobified Music, junked associated identifiers. Use Scheme list to
store Music_sequence.  Removed const declarations from
Music_iterators.  Added a mutable and immutable property list to
Music.  Use music property for all Scheme values in Music.  Created
and fixed a load of Garbage Collection bugs.

* Changed number font to allow automatic .mf creation.

* Output place of definition as \special{src:LOCATION}. See FAQ for
explanation how to use.

* Schemified Local_key_item and fixed minor bug with accidentals.

* new Japanese .po file.

* Bugfix for broken tie direction

* Bugfix for bar at beginning of line break

1.3.72
======

* Robustness fix for minimise_least_squares ()

* cleanups of Slur_bezier_bow, removed Bezier_bow.

* cleanup of Tie. Changed Tie into interface. Made ties flatter by default.

* changed SCM_UNDEFINED to SCM_UNSPECIFIED for return values that go
back into Scheme.

* changed SCM_UNSPECIFIED to SCM_EOL for undefined element
properties. This makes initializing list properties redundant.

* removed idiotic code for including tfm.[1-5] into search path.

* fixed problem with tuplet placement for cross staff tuplets.

1.3.71
======
* Small cleanups to bring down  compile time and binary ensmallment.

* Made Lookup into a smob, and use guile alist iso. an STL map.

* Changed repeated music semantics for relative octave: each
alternative takes its inital octave from the body.

* Fixed: parser accepts booleans for property values as well.

* Added Scarlatti sonata test file to input/

* kpathsea support, courtesy Carsten Block <carsten.block@gmx.de> 

1.3.70
======
* Fixed: long standing problem in optical-illusion code.

* Fixed: stop beam if stem *has* a beam in auto-beam-engraver. 

* Made interface of Multi_measure_rest, System_start_delimiter,
Spacing_spanner, Separating_group_spanner, Beam, Slur and
Rhythmic_head.

* Use properties for minimum distances and spring parameters.  Move
spacing related functions from Paper_column into Spaceable_element.

* Removed most Paper_column typecasts.

1.3.69
======

* Cleanup auto-beam-engraver: use properties for retrieving timing
information.

* Fixed: Multi measure rests don't cause crashes.

* Fixed: don't invoke Hara_kiri::consider_suicide too early.

* Fixed: property engraver.  

* Fixed: don't crash on multiple ties.

* Cleanups of Beam, should also be a little faster.  

* Reunite properties and pointers. In implementation we make a
distinction between mutable and immutable properties

* Add {has|set}_interface () static methods to interface classes.

* Made Side_position_interface and Staff_symbol_interface an all
statics class, and stripped _interface suffix.

* Make Align_interface and Axis_group_interface an all-statics class 

* Rhythmic_head, Staff_symbol, Grace_align_item, Break_align_item,
Bar, Span_bar are now interfaces, Staff_bar was removed. Use a
callback for determining barsize.

* Removed all GLUE_SCORE_ELEMENT callbacks. 

* Added test for repeats to trip.ly

1.3.68
======

* ly2dvi: changed back to original semantics of latexheaders.

* Stem_tremolo, Crescendo, Hara_kiri_group_spanner, Tuplet_spanner,
Volta_spanner changed into interface.

* Related cleanups for Tie, Tie_column cleanups.

* Made Time_signature, Single_malt_grouping_item, Script_column,
Chord_name, Dot_column, Breathing_sign, Key_item type into interface.

* Removed const declaration from callback arguments.

* Pagebreak support. See input/test/between-systems.ly

* Fixed a problem with accidentals in combination with
non-nil key signatures.

1.3.67
======

* Use callbacks for augmentation dot positioning.

* Removed types Note_head and Rest

* Cleanup of slur.cc: use common reference points in a sane manner.

1.3.66
======

* Corrected text sizes in paper*.ly (Mats Bengtsson)

1.3.65.uu1
==========

* Dots, Collision, Rest_collision removed as separate Score_element type.

* Stem and Note_column accept only one rest.

* Use offset callback in Stem to resolve rest/beam collisions.

* Put the value of new  local key signature (accidentals) back into a property.

* Set molecule-callback for notename item.

1.3.65.jcn2
===========

* Added some comments to new slur code.

* Removed some ugly interstaff slur code, interstaff slurs at line-break
  are still broken.

* Slur bugfix: 16th beams are also beams.


1.3.65
======

* Bugfix: translate volta spanner at start of line.

* Changed directional_element() calls to instantiations
of Directional_element_interface.

* Removed Dynamic_line_spanner, and cleaned up Dynamic_engraver.

* Removed Staff_info type. Information about columns is now transferred
via currentMusicalColumn and currentCommandColumn.


1.3.64.jcn2
============

* Made slur attachment position user settable; properties:
slurBeginAttachment slurEndAttachment, values: 'head 'stem
'along-side-stem.  See input/test/slur-attachment.ly and ophee-slurs.ly.

* Fixed slur attachment positions, added missing rule and use simple
default starting positions for attachments.

* Started rewrite of slur ending code, interstaff slurs are broken for
now.

* Fixed download URL of the webpage.

* Moved direction.cc to flower/.

1.3.64
======

* Lyrics centered on notehead.

* Various bugfixes hyphen-spanner.

* Bugfix: set appropriate callbacks for Note_head. This fixes 
problems with dots.

* Removed Clef_item as score-element derived type.

* Updated config.sub and config.guess

* Bugfix: allow linebreaks on beamed grace notes.

1.3.61.jcn2
===========

* Included dutch po-update based on submitted 1.3.57 nl.po

* Added "Development" link to website, now that "Home" is a relative link.

* Bugfix: use deep copies for resetting keys.

* Assorted typing erors in procedure names in ly/engraver.ly

1.3.62
======

* Made callbacks from Score_element::before_line_breaking() and
Score_element::after_line_breaking()

* Fixed website; backlinks should work again.

* Removed --ignore-version option. Added --verbose option.

1.3.61
======

* Webpage hacking

1.3.60.hwn1
===========

* Junk int_identifier, real_identifier. Merged Midi_def_identifier and
Paper_def_identifier.

* Fixed bug with spanning barlines in combination with Hara-Kiri staffs.

* Cleaned up Text_item, Hyphen_spanner, Lyric_extender and
Sustain_pedal and reduced them to an Score_element interface (they are
no longer Score_element derived types).

* Some instances of brew_molecule routines have moved out of
Score_element, and are now called scheme_molecule.

* Moved lots of parameters from ly/params.ly to ly/engraver.ly

1.3.59.hwn1
===========

* Removed String_identifier, and use the type system of GUILE instead.

* Fixed \key PITCH MODALITY syntax. The modality argument is now
mandatory, a rule in convert-mudela has been added.

* Cleaned up  buildscripts/ directory: removed obsolete scripts.

* Use Scheme_hash_table for identifier Scopes.  Scheme_hash_table is
based on STL and should be faster than hash_table.


1.3.59.jcn1
===========

* Fixed scm_un/protect_object for guile-1.3.4 and 1.3.5 snapshots,
  in the process reduced number of protect/unprotect calls.  With
  guile-1.3.5 snapshot, memory usage has decreased by 1/5th, now
  just 10% above the 1.2 level.  Also, Lily's a bit faster.

* Fixed make diff bug in stepmake to be able to make this diff :-)

1.3.58.hwn1
===========

* Rewrote key sig support.  Now key signature can also be controlled
by setting keySignature and localKeySignature properties, eg.

	\property keySignature = #'((2 . -1) ( 4 . -1) (6 . -1))

sets a key signature of `es ges bes' (an unusual key signature).

Keys are internally represented as transpositions of the c-major
scale. Printing the key signature for a scale is done by filtering out
all non-natural accidentals.

* Removed support for \keysignature, and \key something \minor; Newkey
is now obsolete.

1.3.58.jcn3
===========

* Fixed pedal items (hw)

* Changed configure option tex-tmfdir to tmf-path now accepting multiple
  tfm directories.  Automated links to cmr and amstex tfm font directories.

* Replaced one scm_assoc () u-turn slipped through jcn1

* various GUILE 1.3.5 compile fixes

* Added `Ped' as a compound symbol font and removed silly scheme kerning.

* Replaced some scheme assoc u-turns with scm_assoc ()

* Ran po-update (mostly because of new ja contribution).

1.3.57.jcn2
===========

* Cleaned-up scheme list to text conversion for Chord_name and 
fixed horizontal kerning.

* Added examples for american (slashed o) and jazz (black triangle),
  see input/test/{american-chords.ly,jazz-chords.ly}

* Made guile-1.3.5 compile fixes

1.3.57.uu1
==========

* Fixed typo in Dots::do_brew_molecule (); this fixes the disappearing
dots problem.

* Rewrote key signature administration; now Scheme is used; Octave and
Key have been junked in favor of Newkey.

* japanese .po file included (thanks, Japanese team!)

1.3.57
======

* Fixed several forgotten molecule-callbacks 

* Fixed first clef in score; now F clefs are also possible.

1.3.56.mb1
=========
 
* Updated FAQ with two useful GDB macros.

* Several fixes in the documentation.

1.3.55.jcn1
===========

* Made (dutch) po-update

1.3.56
===========

* Molecules are now generated via callbacks exclusively; most calls to
set_elt_property ("transparent", SCM_BOOL_T) have been replaced by suicide().

1.3.55
======

* Experimental property collapse for most score-elements.  (notable
exceptions: Scripts, pedals). Change all Score_element constructors to
take a basic-property list. The suffix of a property list may be
shared by several score-elements, for instance all default G-clefs in
a score share the following settings
  
	   (breakable . #t)
	   (break-align-symbol . Clef_item)
	   (visibility-lambda . ,begin-of-line-visible) 

This should reduce memory usage further. 

* Magically fixed the disappearing Lyrics problem.

* Removed used_b_ field from Score_element.  

* Massive search-replace patch: store pointers and properties
separately, in preparation of property collapse.


1.3.54
======

* Bugfix: don't crash on tuplet spanners that don't contain any notes.

* Cleanup of Dimension_cache: removed a few redundant
fields. Slightly lower memory usage (32 bytes per
score-element). Dimension_cache is now a `dumb' struct again.

* Add array index to priority field of text scripts to ensure that
order is unique, and sensible.

* Added an element count statistic.

1.3.53
======

* russian.po (thank you, August.)

* Small cleanups in Molecule interface 

* Spacing related elements perform suicide after calculating
distances.  This saves a some memory, approximately 2 to 5 % ?

* Small cleanups in line breaking: Paper_column stores springs and
rods in only one place now.  All fields relating to energy have been
removed

* Don't generate all output Scheme in memory, but evaluate to output
file immediately.  This will reduce memory usage a little.

* Use STL's map  for Dictionary template

* Substitute pointers on element properties of the root Line_of_score
as well.

* Added toplevel doc target, to support building doc with --srcdir

* Removed cygwin build stuff; updated versions at:

     http://appel.dyndns.org/lilypond/gnu-windows/cross

* Fixed lily.scm to handle incipits (thanks, Mats)


1.3.52
======

* Made bugfix in smob handling: delete the C-part of freed smobs and
be honest about amount of allocation and deletion, so that GUILE
doesn't overestimate the amount of memory available.

* Faq update: nicer blank note paper, courtesy Mats Bengtsson.

* Bugfix: don't crash on durations that are not a power of 2.

* Build manpages during `make all' 
 
* Bugfix: don't do absolute comparisons in Polynomial::clean ().

* Bugfix: set visibility-lambda for key signature created by
createKeyOnClefChange. Fixes disappearing key signatures. 

* Bugfix: make System_start_delimiter of bar-line type invisible when
it spans only one staff.

1.3.51
======

* Item cleanups.  Copying items and rearranging pointers are done in
separate passes, which makes the code cleaner. This fixes a problem
with some items not disappearing from hara-kiri staffs.

* Use Scheme for Key_item data members. 

* Don't use regex in chord-names.scm under windows; hybrid chordnames
user+calculated will be partly broken.

1.3.50
======

* Junked Shift_tuple from collision; Now it uses SCM.

* Bugfix of documentation and test-file of tuplet.

* Bugfix type string of repeated music is copied. This fixes declared
tremolos.

* Junked various cruft from lily.scm

* Use interfaces symbols instead of C++ class-name for assigning generic
element properties.

* Junked Dictionary from Piano_pedal_engraver and
Piano_pedal_performer.

* Introduced boolean element property no-spacing-rods: ignore this
item for hard constraints.

* Bugfix: added sanitised TeX fragment in faq.texi

* Bugfix: merge equal Bar_reqs

1.3.48.uu1
==========

* Small fixes for \cresc and \endcresc

* Release properties of unbroken spanners & items after doing
handle_broken_smobs (); should conserve a little memory.

* Fixed handling of orphaned score-elements. Any element that does
not have its Line_of_score as a ancestor in both directions, is silently
removed from the output.  This guarantees that programming errors
don't result in coredumps from Dimension_cache::common_refpoint ():
element->line_l () is always a common reference point.

* Bugfix: set visibility-lambda of clef and octavation-8 explicitly
for default case.  Now the octavation 8 is not printed at every
barline.

1.3.48.mb1
===========

* Changed noteHeadStyle properties to symbols, for example
  \property Voice.noteHeadStyle = #'cross

1.3.47.jcn3
===========

* Rewrite of chord-name production in scheme.  There are two major styles
  now, banter and american.  To get american style, use

      \property ChordNames.chordNameStyle = "american"
 
  Most anything should be possible now.  See input/test/american-chords.ly

* Added isinf check to configure.in, and isinf macro from guile to
  bezier.cc; solaris has no isinf ().

* Fixed star-spangled-banner with not-so-nice \bar "|." fix.  Almost
  perfect now.

* Added output property to regression test.

* Fixed warning of creating existing outdir.

* Added `Mark' interface to text-items that are marks (thanks, HW).

1.3.48
======
1.3.47.mb2
===========

* Corrected glossary.tely

* Corrected \mark font handling. feta-nummer font only of the 
  string is all numeric.

* Implemented noteHeadStyle lookup in Guile. Reintroduced the style
  "harmonic" and added "baroque" (normal note shapes except for 
  brevis and longa which are square).

* Simplified ly2dvi using the power of the geometry package.

* Improved heuristic size calculation of TeX macros. Handles e.g.
  "\\u{a}", "\\"{o}" and "\\^{u}" correctly.

1.3.47.hwn1
===========

* Bugfix: don't hang on zero-duration.

* Various glossary updates (thanks, Christian)

1.3.47
======

1.3.46.jcn2
===========

* Drastically reduced vertical space used by headers/footers, when using
  ly2dvi.  See input/test/fill-a4.ly.

* Fixed bug with colons appearing on repeat span-bars.

* Added Bar_number_engraver to standard Score context

* Construct octavation scripts in the clef-engraver; this fixes the
hara-kiri + clef8 problem

1.3.46
======

1.3.45.jcn2
===========

* Fixed chord-name customisation and made small chord-name build fixes.

* Accidentals with chord-names smaller and as superscript.

* Do some extra footify (works only once) while making html docs.  

1.3.45.hwn1
===========

* Debian patch (Thanks Anthony)

* Rewrote Bar_number_engraver and Mark_engraver and removed
Bar_script_engraver as baseclass. Both Bar_number_engraver and
Mark_engraver are simpler and more robust.

* Fixed precedence of \property verticalDirection and dynamicDirection

* Fixed keys without barlines 

* Fixed StaffGroups: removing `\consistsend "Axis_group_engraver"'
puts alignment in function again

* Fixed StaffGroup + GrandStaff combination.

* Music is now mandatory as the first thing in a \score{} block

1.3.45
======
1.3.44.jcn2
===========

* Implemented una-chorda and sostenuto piano pedals in performer and engraver.

* Added Properties textScriptWordSpace and chordNameWordSpace.

* Junked old lyrics in star-spangled-banner.

* Added a Piano_pedal_engraver.

* Removed some empty files.

* Created piano pedal symbols: * - . P e d.

* Fixed ps-to-pfa.py to handle multiple unfills.

* Moved accordion symbols out of feta-script to end of font.

* Bugfix: don't create tfm's, pfa's etc of feta-test fonts.

* Fixed blot_diameter for small resolutions.

1.3.43
======

* Put global element list into Line_of_score, instead of
Paper_score. post processing (the stage after line breaking) is now
truly done per-system, and we got rid of an ugly hack to get font
handling OK.

* Bugfix: set the group-interface of System_start_delimiter.

* Cleanups of Break_algorithm and derived classes, Move
broken_col_range () to Line_of_score, remove Paper_score::col_l_arr_

* Bugfix for accordion symbols.

* Various patches to prevent crashing when do_brew_molecule gets
called before after_line_breaking (). This was a problem in Spanner
classes mostly.

1.3.43
======

1.3.42.jcn3
===========

* Made a quick try at piano pedal performer, damper pedal only.

* mf/feta-accordion.mf: Fixed strange turning paths.

* mf/feta-beugel.mf: Fixed infinity errors.

* Use a more discriptive name for windows setup.zip.

* mf/GNUmakefile: Have logs as last target, so that normally, they're 
not made twice.

* stepmake/stepmake/metafont-rules.make: Don't remove the .log files.
The logs are a target, removing them retriggers make.

* stepmake/stepmake/metapost-rules.make: Remove the correct log and tfm
files, ie the ones that clutter the source directory, not the target logs.

* Windows distribution: faked symlink for cmtfm.  Setup.zip should now be
standalone; ie, no need for Cygnus' usertools anymore.

1.3.42.jbr1
===========
  
* Documentation/ntweb: Updated angels.ly to match current syntax.
Also updated index.texi.

1.3.42.uu1
==========

* Change all occurances of Staff_margin_engraver to
Instrument_name_engraver, add a convert-mudela rule

* Change status == busy assert into programming error

1.3.42
======

1.3.41.jcn3
===========

* Lots of fixes to windows distribution scripts.

* Added configuration features --program-prefix, --program suffix.

* lily/my-lily-parser.cc (get_chord): Bugfix, don't use deleted pitch.
This fixes inversions c/g and bass additions d/+c on chords.

1.3.41.mb1
==========

* Avoid that xxxXXXVerticalExtent is used for empty HaraKiriStaff
  lines.

1.3.41.hwn1
===========

* Debian patches (thanks Anthony!)

* Use symbols for prefatory matter spacing. Do not use the typename
for looking up item pairs in the table, but read element property
break-align-symbol

* Instrument_name_engraver, uses break alignment instead of
side-position.

* System_start_delimiter_engraver, System_start_delimiter, uses a
spanner for the braces/brackets at the left of the system. Remove all
old Span_score_bar engravers.

* Removed Base_span_bar_engraver::use_prority_b_, and moved
Base_span_bar_engraver into Span_bar_engraver.

1.3.40.jcn3
===========

* mutopia/Coriolan/violino-2.ly: Bugfix: wrong pitch.

* input/test: Removed stale AutoStaffSwitch examples.

* mutopia/E.Satie: Fixed gnossiene-4, doing \autochange.  Removed
stale copy of gnossiene-4.

* buildscripts/make-cygwin-cross.sh: Made some small .zip package fixes.

* make/lilypond.spec.in: Made some bugfixes for _prefix, preparations
for cross-building to Cygwin.

* buildscripts/make-cygwin-cross.sh: Now using rpm packages.

1.3.40.hwn2
===========

* added \property XXXMinimumVerticalExtent, \property XXXExtraVerticalExtent

* New_chord_tremolo_engraver: make tremolo beams from

	\repeat "tremolo" NUMBER <Music-expression>

Removed support for "old-style" tremolos.

* Add a convert-mudela function for the conversion "\key A;" to "\key a; 

* Read \property measurePosition within the engraver code, instead of
looking up the Timing_translator.

* star-spangled-banner.ly: add Bar_engraver to LyricsVoice 

* Changed all .fly and .sly files to .ly files.  Propose to dump .fly
and .sly.

1.3.40
======

1.3.39.jbr1
===========

* buildscripts/mf-to-table.py: feta dep files are now opened with write
  binary option.  This avoids carriage return linefeed problems and
  windows while not affecting unix.

* Documentation/hacking.texi: Fixed a texinfo syntax error

* stepmake/bin/package-zip32.sh: Fixed or Removed some legacy, 1.2.x,
  directory paths.

* Documentation/ntweb/index.texi: Fixed broken links, added 1.3.39 links.

1.3.39.hwn1
===========

* Glossary updates by Christian Mondrup.

* Bugfix: use generic properties in lyrics too. This fixes the
\property textStyle for lyrics.

* Score_element::preset_extent(), used by \property
XXXVerticalExtent, so hard code the size of a vertical group. 

* Don't fix up reference points for originals of broken
spanners. Fixes spurious "orphaned score-element" warnings.

* buildscripts/make-cygwin-cross.sh: Use rx-1.5 instead of regex (Jeffrey).

* scm/lily.scm: Fixed check for Windows: by default don't use scm regex.

* Documentation/ntweb/guile-1.3.4-gnu-windows.patch: Significantly smaller
patch for guile.

* buildscripts/make-cygwin-cross.sh: Compile native package GNU regex,
which should fix Windows problems with guile.  Also added input directory
to zip file.

* stepmake/aclocal.m4: Added decent checking for version of guile, and 
fixed warning message.

* lily/lexer.ll (My_lily_lexer): Bugfix: lookup chordmodifiers in the
chord-modifier table (not in the pitch list).

1.3.39
======

1.3.38.hwn2
===========

* General cleanups of My_lily_parser. 

* Start of a Chord_tremolo_iterator for the `\repeat 4 "tremolo"'
syntax.

* Moved Score_element::do_space_processing out of the dependency
mechanism.

* Use Scheme for notename tables.  Removed uppercase letters for low
octave notes. Removed Notename_table.

* Fixed core dump with declared "\key  ; "

* Extra robustness warning for Side_position_interface::aligned_on_self ()

* Extra robustness: make sure that first and last columns are breakable.
  	
1.3.38.jcn4
===========

* stepmake/aclocal.m4: Added support for cross-compiling with guile.

* buildscripts/make-cygwin-cross.sh: A try at dropping cygwin1.dll
 dependency by using mingw.  Compiling guile is too much to ask
 for mingw, though.  Also:
 - rename python scripts .py (request from Alain)
 - install native packages under their own, separate root. (Alain)

* lily.scm: Don't use regex module when running on
Windows. (Shamus)

* lily/staff-margin-engraver.cc (acknowledge_element): If
possible, hang y-axis of margin script to span-bar.  This fixes
vertical placement of margin scripts attached to staff groups.

* help2man-rules.make: Fixes for generating manpages by copying
and for building using --scrdir.

* stepmake/stepmake/generic-targets.make: Preserve date stamp of
config.h, version.hh files file when copying.

* buildscripts/make-cygwin-cross.sh: made number of fixes:
	- add `Cygnus/' prefix to directories in .zip-file too.
	- package guile too.
	- don't link to cygwin1.dll

* stepmake/stepmake/install-targets.make: bugfix, don't fail if directory
  is not emty when uninstalling.
	
* stepmake/stepmake/generic-targets.make: added man target.

* buildscripts/make-cygwin-cross.sh: new script for cross-building cygwin
  development tools and lilypond executable.

* Documentation/ntweb/lilypond-manpages.patch: provide pre-built
  manpages, so that make doesn't fail on help2man trying to execute
  a GNU/windows executable.	

* Documentation/ntweb/guile-1.3.4-gnu-windows.patch: new patch for
  guile-1.3.4.  

* flower/libc-extension.cc (memmem): cygwin compile fix.

1.3.38
======

1.3.37.hwn1
===========

* (generic-property.scm) added \property tieDash to set dashing on
ties.

* Removed  ly_eval_str(), we should use scm_eval (Scm_object).

* Removed scm_to_array (), array_to_scm (), associated junk. Reverted
undocumented .29 patch that made Bezier::control_ into an
Array<Offset>.  Added some comments documenting the reasons for the
changes.

* Revert generic-property.scm of .37 fix, fix the real problem in
property-engraver.cc: use the right symbol to check if element
property is already set.

1.3.37.jcn2
===========

* Fixed srcdir build, so that you can do:

      tar xzf releases/lilypond-x.y.z
      mkdir <build>
      cd <build>
      ../lilypond-x.y.z/configure
      make

  as with any other gnu package.  All build output goes to <build>/out.

* Changed and fixed use of different configurations, and different output
  directories.  Finally, you can use different configurations alongside
  eachother.  From make/stepmake.make:

      # Use alternate configurations alongside eachother:
      #
      #     ./configure --enable-config=debug
      #     make conf=debug
      #
      # uses config-debug.make and config-debug.h; output goes to out-debug.
      #

      # Use same configuration, but different output directory:
      #
      #     make out=www
      #
      # uses config.make and config.h; output goes to out-www.
      #


* Fixed performance of (de)crescendi.

* Better documentation for arithmetic_multiplier and arithmetic_basicspace
  in params.ly.

* Added instrument-equaliser for MIDI output, see scm/midi.scm, and
  properties midiMinimumVolume, midiMaximumVolume, ranges [0,1].

* Changed absolute midi volume settings into factor of full scale.

* Fixed another dynamic-line-spanner bug, it gets hairy.

* Added warning for spanners that are not fully contained in parent spanner.


1.3.37
======
1.3.36.hwn1
===========

* Abstract Align_element into Align_interface. Removed
Axis_align_{item,spanner}, Align_element, Super_element, all multiple
inheritance in the backend.

* new Gade score, INSTALL.texi fixes (thanks, Mats)

* Removed Item::hpos_f (), Score_element::{get,set}_real ()

* comments detailing properties for Axis_group_interface,
Side_position_interface, Score_element, Item and Spanner

1.3.36.jcn3
===========

* Fixed vertical dimensions of elements in dynamic line spanner by adding
  axis-group to dynamic line spanner.

* Bugfix: line-spanner lasts always full duration of (de)crescendi.

* Bugfix: broken (de)crescendi on a dynamic-line-spanner.

* Bugfix: compilation dynamic-engraver.

* Added and updated a faq about postscript and ghostscript.

* Fixed order of slurVerticalDirection verticalDirection in
  generic-property.scm.  Similar fixes for Stem, Tie, etc.

* Added a Text_engraver to GraceContext.  Maybe it was removed on
  purpose: scripts on grace notes seem broken, they appear on the
  main note.

* Bugfix: volume effect of (de)crescendi was sometimes wrong way round.

1.3.36
======
1.3.35.hwn1
===========

* textEmptyDimension changed into textNonEmpty, default: off,
ie. texts don't occupy space.

* Use STL map for Lookup::lookup_p_tab_p_

* Abstracted Axis_group_element into Axis_group_interface, and removed
Axis_group_element. This eliminates some multiple inheritance in the
backend

1.3.35.jcn1
===========

* Added minimum-space property to Side_position_interface.  Used in
  positioning of Volta_spanner: voltaMinimumSpace.

* Fixed and cleaned-up volta-spanner.

* Moved directional-element.cc -> directional-element-interface.cc

* Renamed all `process_requests' to `process_music', which fixes
  midi performance.

* Fixed dimensions (more x-y interchanges) of brace, bracket and
  volta-spanner.

* Half-assed fix to get similar vertical placement of orphaned vs.
  line-spanned dynamic elements.

* Added property bracketCollapseHeight: the minimal size of a staff bracket
  that will be typeset.  Smaller brackets will not be displayed.  This
  fixes the (in 1.3.x reintroduced) funny duck-beak-bracket-bug (sorry).

* Removed some dissonant chords from Coriolan

1.3.35
======

* Removed Documentation/programmer directory 

1.3.34.jcn3
===========

* Small enhancements to Staff_margin_engraver:
   - by default, the marginScript left aligns the text
   - to set the text style, use property marginScriptTextStyle
   - to change the alignment, use property marginScriptHorizontalAlignment
     (centred and right alignment require manual padding settings).

* Print a friendly message if the manual pages failed to build.

* Bugfix: dynamicDirection now overrides verticalDirection setting.

* Warning messages and nl.po

* Fixed vertical alignment for all dynamic items and (reluctantly)
  reinstated old directional behaviour for orphaned dynamics.

* Finished maximumRestCount property.

1.3.34
======
1.3.33.hwn2
===========

* Print key without setting key, syntax "\key ;". General cleanups of
key-item.

* Add paragraph tags in HTML output of mudela-book.  Music fragment
don't run into the text anymore.

* Bugfix: don't align the first line of text. (Lookup::text ()).

* Abstract away data members of Axis_group_element, Align_element


1.3.33.jcn3
===========

* Added helpful properties instrumentScriptPadding/instrScriptPadding for
  Staff_margin_engraver.

* Removed some empty files, substituted (c) 1999 occurrences.

* Added \property maximumRestCount.  It will prevent showing (or actually:
  moving in case of a collision) more than maximumRestCount similar rests.
  WIP!

* Rewrote Staff_margin_engraver.  Staff margin texts now hang on a new
  breakable item: Left_edge_item.

* Fixed vertical alignment for dynamic elements.  Orphaned dynamic items
  (not supported by a Dynamic_line_spanner) still collide with Staff,
  although they now have staff support, which was supposed to fix this.

* Fixed Staff_margin_engraver for "instrument", "instr" is still broken.

* Dynamic elements are only put in a Dynamic_line_spanner if there
  actually is more than one adjacent note-column with a dynamic.
  This breaks the fine looks of all dynamics, again :-)




1.3.33
======

1.3.32.hwn3
===========

* Experiment: use STL map for Scheme_hash_table; Is there a speedup?

* Bugfix: print brace iso. bracket for Piano / GrandStaff

* Change naming: change do_post_processsing into after_line_breaking,
do_pre_processsing into before_line_breaking and do_process_requests
into do_process_music.

* Bugfix in hash-table.hh: do quadratic probing, and not cubic probing.

* Display property name for type error.

* Cleanups for Dynamic_engraver and Dynamic_line_spanner.

* Warn if last column in score is musical. Helps catch programming errors.

* Spanner::spanned_drul_ now is private. 

* Rewrote some bar code: moved molecule functions out of Lookup.

1.3.32.jcn3
===========

* Embedded newlines in text items are now allowed.  This helps avoiding
  TeX-hacking in some cases.  See input/test/coriolan-margin.ly

* Fixed stupid x-y interchange bug for staff-bracket.  This fixes
  placement of staff-brackets.

* Fixed bracket/arch-thickness interchange bug, and made bracket a bit
  thinner.

* Fixed slur/bezier-beautiful name mismatch.  This should fix the steep
  slurs that were apparently reintroduced in 1.3.29.

* Made some small fixes to Coriolan.

* Removed duplicate lily/output-property-engraver.hh.

* Removed optional use of vanilla spanner in Dynamic_engraver.

* Fixed (measured) tremolo for Stem and Beam. Merged declarations
  stem-engraver.hh and chord-tremolo-engraver.hh into their .cc
  implementation file.  Also fixed looks of Chord tremolo, input and
  implementation is still ugly.

* Added *.yy and *.ll to TAGS, to that tags-find-replace doesn't omit
  parser and lexer.

1.3.31.mb1
=========

* Fixed \specialkey and \normalkey. Updated documentation.

1.3.32
======
1.3.31.jcn5
===========

* Fixed and cleaned-up Dynamic_engraver.  Optionionally uses vanilla
  spanner instead of Dynamic_line_spanner.

* Made gcc-2.95 compile fix in libc-extension.

* Various fixes to Coriolan, score starts to look acceptable.

* Moved optional text of crescendo into Crescendo spanner.  Fixed horizontal
  and vertical alignment of dynamics.

* Added new text crescendo spanners to Coriolan and made some fixes.
  If you're using timidity, use the -EO option to prevent notes get
  stuck.  I'm not sure whose fault this is, Lily's MIDI output may be
  stretching the standard a bit.

* Adjacent dynamic markings are now grouped on a horizontal line, but it's
  not perfect yet: they're always below the staff and no horizontal spacing
  is done.  Also, character metrics of dynamics are still not used.
  See: input/test/crescendi.ly and input/test/dyn-line.ly

* Cleaned up Span_dynamic_performer.

1.3.31
======
1.3.30.mb1
=========

* Fixed the page layout, reintroducing space for the header and
  trying to keep piece titles on the same page as the piece.
  The header and footer can now contain several lines.

1.3.30.jcn3
===========

* Lily now also performs crescendi and decrescendi in MIDI output:
  Span_dynamic_performer in a slightly crappy way.

* Added preliminary support for crescendi/decrescendi other than `hairpins',
  eg: `cresc. poco `a poco -- -- --'

* Made MIDI tie performance fix.

1.3.30.jcn2
===========

* Lily now performs absolute dynamics in MIDI output.

* Included David's comments on opus47 in TODO.

1.3.30.jcn1
===========

* More Coriolan: flute-1,2; oboe-1,2; clarinet-1,2; 
  fixes and remainder french horn-1,2; trombone-1,2;
  fagotto-1,2; timpani; and several fixes.
  
1.3.30.uu1
==========

* Remove some old doco from programmer/ and put on personal homepage.

* Removed union-find from flower library.

* Only quantise tie horizontal part inside the staff.

1.3.30
======
1.3.29.hwn1
===========

* Report type errors for \property. Helps with converting 1.2 input

* Use Scheme for Align_element; fixed graceAlignPosition 
and removed \property alignmentReference in the process.

* Use generic properties for lyrics too.  This fixes \property
Lyrics.textStyle


* Add relative distance for constraints between non-column items.

* Automatic \marks: use "\mark ; ". The mark numbers or letters are
increased automatically.

* Translators now only change properties of their own context. This
removes the 2nd argument to Translator::get_property()

* Bugfix for Metapost mode

1.3.29.uu1
==========

* Updates of glossary  (Christian Mondrup)

* Bugfix with bar number placement

* Moved links to bibliography/ and misc/ to main index.

1.3.29
======

* Moved Slur-specific code from Bezier_bow to Slur and Slur_bezier_bow.
  Slurs are now calculated just once.

* Bezier_bow gets constants from paper.  Still no sensible solution for
  magic asymmetry gradient step constants.

* Reinstantiated tangent-controls, more flexible than ever.  You can choose
  between area asymmetry and tangent-controls.  My guess is, tangent controls
  will be junked in 1.3.30.

* Slur area: only look at x-gradient.

* Added credits for some symbols of as5/9 fonts.

* Bugfix: don't make almost flat slurs, change in de-uglyfy slur.  

* Bugfix: midi2ly put out recent version (ugh).

1.3.28.hwn2
===========

* Bugfix: don't forget to process staffSpace and numberOfStaffLines
properties.

* Removed Gade score. To appear (shortly?) on Mutopia. 

* Make Bar_script_engraver look for typeVisibilityFunction (eg
property barNumberVisibilityFunction). Changed the names of the Scheme
functions to be understandable. See input/test/bar-script-visibility.ly

* rewrite of class Molecule. It has now reached the ultimate quality
plateau. All molecule data is now shared.

1.3.28
======

* Update of the glossary by Christian Mondrup 

* Moved horn-concerto-3 out of tarball to private website, removed
W.A.Mozart subdirectory.

1.3.27.hwn1
===========

* Bugfix: don't make giant ties if the horizontal part of tie is near
the center.

* Small optimizations to be a little more careful with mem usage. 

* Website change: put all examples in one directory.

* Removed Atom as a separate type.  Now use SCM, and since we use
function composition, Atoms are immutable, so they don't have to be
copied. This makes life easier, hopefully this is quicker and uses
less memory.

1.3.27.jcn1
===========

* Bezier_bow: minimise_enclosed_area

1.3.27
======

1.3.26.hwn4
===========

* Tuplet-spanner slope calculation now looks better on tupletted rests
(patch courtesy Laurent Martelli)

* Bugfix (Staff_performer::new_instrument_str ()) check type of
\property "instrument"

* New mechanism for breaking lines: do not copy & prune the element
property list separately, but combine these steps. Dramatically
reduces memory usage for large scores.

1.3.27
======
1.3.26.jcn2
===========

* Bugfix: font used in volta-spanner calculation.

* Added simple selection list to webpage, inspired by sawmill.
 
* Devised kludge for ascii 5 character font pitches.
 
* Substitutions: interline, 1997,1998, @stack.nl and small typo fixes.

1.3.26.hwn1
===========

* Plug memory leaks related to Moment:
  - Spacing_engraver::do_pre_move_processing ()
  - make_rational ()/make-rational
  - Paper_column::Paper_column ()

* Plug memory leak in Paper_outputter::output_{String,Real,int}_def()

* Plug memory leak in Score_engraver::set_columns ()

* Plug memory leak in Scheme_hash_table::set()

* Plug memory leak in Score_element::molecule_extent ()

* Bugfix: don't crash if a slur doesn't span anything.

* Bugfix: don't crash if doing beams without a staff symbol.

* Generic element property setting:

	\outputproperty #predicate #'symbol = #value

Will set the element property symbol to value, for any elements that
return true for PREDICATE.  This allows you to virtually tweak *ANY*
property of the output. Example in input/test/generic-output-property.ly

1.3.26
======

* lilypond as as2ly: --help and --version to stdout.  Regular identify 
  to stderr.  This fixes help2man's manpage generation.

* configure: substitute full path for perl and guile in scripts.

* Added ascii slur and volta.  There seems to be a Lily bug in volta placement.

* Bugfix: default font now user settable

* as2text: handle plain ascii font, read from stdin, you can now do:

  echo "\time 4/4; g''1 g2 g4. g8" | lilypond -f as -i init-as.fly - | as2text

1.3.25.hwn1
===========

* Bugfix: second half of broken ties now are displayed again.

* Bugfix: add clef to the support of 8 text in the G_8 clefs. Center
it horizontally on the clef.

* Added Tie_column spanner. Ties in tied chords now get proper directionsa.

* Bugfix: unbroken repeat barlines now work, eg. |:

* Added Request_iterator to make more flexible constructions possible.

1.3.25
======
* as2text: catch missing font/character errors, added default font, set text.

* New ascii fonts and glyphs: as5 as-numeral4 as-braces9

* Ascii output, minimal support:
  - AsciiScript Fonts: mf/*.af
  - Init files: ly/*-as.*ly 
  - AsciiScript translation to text: scripts/as2text.scm
  - input/test/as.fly input/test/as1.fly
  - Output support: lily/lily.scm
  - Try:
      lilypond -f as -i init-as.fly input/test/as.fly
      as2text as.as

1.3.24.hwn1
===========

* The horizontal part of ties will avoid collision with staff lines.

* Plugged memory leak: don't protect Atom function.

* Lookup cleanups. Made lots of functions static. Moved some code out
of Lookup.



1.3.24.hwn1
===========

* Bugfix: ly2dvi.py exits succesfully when encountering --help and
does not delete any of the file_ly*.tex.

* Added header and footer support in ly2dvi.py

1.3.24
======

* Added a ROADMAP file explaining the source directory layout.

* Minor tweak in the feta 6 and 9 numeral
 
* Moved files from lib/ to flower/

* Removed Note_head_side class.

* Updated the webpage to be a little more chatty. 

* Small Local_key_engraver optimization: only lookup timing engraver once.

* Fixed dashed slurs

* Rewrite of Slur code.  Be much more picky about slur shapes. We try
to offset the slur instead of bending it too much

* Look at stem directions for tie direction.

* Compound multimeasure rests. Put measures_i_ variable in an element
property.  Made the symbol a lot wider.

* Time signature small cleanups.

1.3.22.hwn2
===========

* Symbols opposite to stem (eg marcato) now get the proper glyph in up
version.

* Breathing marks now have a direction by default.

* Do set generic script properties.

* Also put tuplet brackets under notes.

* Score_element_info: only store origin of element, but not the path
to parent translators. Saves a little memory, and removes some complexity.


1.3.22.hwn1
===========

* Autobeaming in time sigs that don't have 1/4 beats fixed.

* (De)crescendi should now work. (Thanks Michael)

* Better error reporting for conflicting time signatures.

* Line_number_engraver: output locations of note head
definitions. Very handy when entering complicated scores.

* Rewrote multi measure rest support: now they are entered as spanners
(\commandspanrequest \start "rest"). RXXXX is an abbreviation for

  { \commandspanrequest \start "rest"
    SXXXX
    \commandspanrequest \stop "rest"
  }

* Removed support of percent style repetitions. 

* Put texts outside the staff.

1.3.21.mb1
==========
* Getopt bugfix: don't assert on certain errors.

* ly2dvi: Remove unnecessary space for the page headers.

* Bugfix convert-mudela

1.3.21.hwn1
===========

* Bugfix in lilypond-mode.el: eval-buffering now uses file name and
not buffer name.

* Scrapped tupletVisibility property. Now use tupletNumberVisibility,
tupletBracketVisibility, with Scheme value #t, #f or 'if-no-beam.
\property tupletInvisible will stop all tuplet spanner creation.

* Don't go berserk if tuplet spanner is on only one column.

* Use SCMs & Smobs for Molecules & atoms.  This uses less
scm_(un)protect_object () calls, so the output stage should be faster.

* Added \property tupletSpannerDuration, to make multiple tuplet signs
with one \times.

* Some programming Errors in spacing are now caught. Lily does not
hang when encountering degenerate springs.

* Allow beams to start and end over rests

1.3.19.hwn2
===========
* Fix disappearing clefs when clefs are not printed with a barline.

1.3.20.jcn2
==========

* SCM properties beamHeight and beamVerticalposition now use half-spaces:
  input/test/beam-control.fly
* Added \context Voice to .fly and .sly; the default \context Staff is almost
  never what you expect
* Fixed decision for .sly/.fly in lilypond-mode.

1.3.19.hwn1
==========

* Clean up font-metric hierarchy, use Adobe AFM code to parse AFM files.
Cleanup mf-to-table.py

* Fixed embarassing slur bug.

1.3.19.jcn1
==========

* lilypond-mode.el: guess init file for lily-*-region, lily-mode-map bindings

1.3.18.uu2
==========

* lilypond-mode.el for emacs supersedes mudela-mode.el 

* Tuplet spanners don't collide with encompassing notes. 

* Gobbled Adobe parseAFM* code, for future use.

* Big 1999 to 2000 search/replace.

* Big interline to staff_space search/replace for mf files.

* Removed Bow class, and split code into Tie and Slur

* Don't put scripts on grace notes.

* Font_metric uses SCM for name field.

* Various compilation fixes.

1.3.17.jcn2
===========

* Bugfix: beams with less than one (visible) stem

* small fixes to pa.ly

1.3.17.jcn1
===========

* Fixed bug that made multi-measure rest barnumber counts go wild.
(even more scm2int/int2scm mixups!)

* mutopia/J.S.Bach/pa.ly: organ score (for my father)

* small fix to mutopia/J.S.Bach/Duette/violino-ii.ly

1.3.17.hwn2
===========

* Remove Paper_def calls in bezier-bow.cc

* Remove data members of Tuplet_spanner,  Volta_spanner

* hang_on_clef, property hangOnClef removed

* Bar::type_str_ mode into element property `glyph'. Use a Scheme
function to determine breaking behavior.

* More Scheme typechecking.

* Be strict about the difference between strings and symbols for conversion.

* Fixed bug that made 1st line offset to right fixed. Bugfix courtesy
Laurent Martelli.

* Partial French translation, courtesy Laurent Martelli.

* Small corrections in NL translation. 

1.3.17.hwn1
===========

* Added mensural note heads (noteHeadStyle = "mensural") Additionally,
we have a longa note head.  noteHeadStyle = "harmonic" is not
supported anymore. (for now, that is)  

* Reference manual update. Document \properties with examples

* fix mudela-book --help

* Use element properties for Text_item::text_str_, Clef_item::symbol_,
Key_item::c0_position_

* Clef_engraver general cleanup. Use alists (\property
supportedClefTypes, clefPitches) for clef types.

* Use progress_indication () for progress. Don't include <iostream.h> directly 
Don't include <string.h>, <math.h> from headers.


1.3.16.hwn1
===========

* \property stemCentered (boolean): centers stem on note head. See
input/test/stem-centered.ly

* input/trip.ly, small test of lots of features.

* \property Staff.collisionMergeDotted: merge equal noteheads
with different dot count. See input/test/collision-merge-dotted.fly

* Dotted rest bugfix 

* Don't crash if a slur does not span any notes.

* Volta repeats fixed.

* cleanup of Note_heads_engraver

* removed dots_i_ member of Dots

1.3.16.jcn1
===========
* Fixed cross staff slurs.  It seems that cross-staff sign
  was swapped.

1.3.15.hwn1
===========

* Fixed bug in stem code.  Stem in chords works again.  Small
stem cleanups.

* Use element properties for Staff_symbol.

* \property sparseTies (boolean).  Only make one tie in the
middle for tied chords.

* Junked Directional_spanner, Column_info.
Directional_element now is element interface `Directional_element_interface'

* cleanup: use to_boolean () iso. gh_boolean_p && gh_bool2scm

pl 15.jcn4
	- removed old notename2scm conversion
	- beam-dir-algorithm through scm
	- bfs paper-scm
gv	- bf: knee-stemlengths

pl 15.jcn3
	- moved poor man's stem arrays to scm
	
pl 15.jcn2
	- beam quanting using scm lists

pl 14.hwn1jcn1
	- chord-name uses scm members
	- bfs: knee with different mults, interstaff knee, auto-knee

**********
pl 14.hwn1
	- specialize duration.cc for lily, move out of lib/
	- stem cleanup
	- more SCM typechecking
	- stafflineleading -> staff_space
	- bf: rod distances.
	- junk some unused code.
	
pl 13.hwn2
	- paper/score column cleanups. Junk Score_column type

pl 13.hwn1
	- Bezier_bow/Bezier cleanups
	- bf: rest under beam.
	
pl 13.jcn2
	- untangled Chord_name (item) and Chord (list-of-pitches)
	
pl 13.jcn1
	- bezier-bow fix

**********
pl 12.hwn1
	- polynomial.hh
	- bf: generic properties
	- quantise_iv () fix.
	- bezier cleanup
	- class Polynomial 
	- use smobs for font metric tables/hashes.
	- nl.po bf

**********
pl 11.jcn3
	- small beam fixes (interstaff knees still broken)

pl 11.hwn1
	- bf: dots
	- bf: harmonic note heads
	- revise stem, notehead, rest

pl 11.jcn2
 	- included missing scm,ly updates
	- bf: urg to_dir () takes scm..
	- bf's: if (Foo b = bar != 1)
	- beam cleanup

*********
pl 10.uu1
	- various small bfs
	- bf: alignment reversed
	- Staff_symbol_referencer -> Staff_symbol_referencer_interface
	- bf: staccato pos
	- Knee fixes (thanks, Jan)

pl 10.jcn2
	- fixes for invisible beamed stems
	- removed steminfo from properties, don't cache Stem_info

pl 10.jcn1
	- steminfo to properties
	- dropped internote dim for stem-beams

*********
pl 9.hwn1
	- abstracting Staff_symbol_referencer to an interface.
	- quantised_position for staccato dots.
	- standchen fixes
	- junk Score_element::do_{width,height}: set callbacks directly.
	- merge Score_element, Graphical_element
	- merge Axis_group_element, Graphical_axis_group
	- junk pointer fields from Score_element derived classes
	- junk obsolete do_substitute_dependency code.

**********

pl 8.hwn2
	- staff-support for Crescendi.
	- padding for accidentals.
	- cascading offset callbacks

pl 8.hwn1
	- note-head-side 
	- naming Staff_sidify -> Side_position_interface

***********

pl 7.mb1
	- bf: timeSignatureStyle works again

pl 7.hwn1
	- Dirk Latterman key/mmrest patches
	- Offset callbacks in Dimension_cache
	- Junked Staff_side_*
	- Staff_sidify: interface class.
	- prelude-{1,2} fixes.

***********
pl 6.uu2
	- bf: PS font selecting.

pl 6.uu1
	- bf: ls-latex
	- mudela-book --no-pictures
	- bf: ly2dvi
	- convert-mudela: beamAuto moment syntax. 

pl 6.jcn3
	- fixed scm output

pl 6.jcn2
	- half-baken ly-gulp-file in scm
	- resurrected scm output through guile

pl 5.mb1
	- bf: version of init.sly, init.fly
	- Clarify necessary version of texinfo
	- bf: texi files, minor errors and syntax compatible with 
	  older makeinfo

pl 6.jcn1
	- bf: scm output

*******

pl 5.hwn2
	- Bach preludes: mutopification
	- dots are Directional_element too; use \property dotDirection
	- moved some stuff out of Lookup
	- bf: dots
	- font selection mechanics changed.

pl 5.uu1
	- bf: smob allocation (thanks David!)

pl 5.hwn1
	- junked \shape. Now use #'margin-shape 
	- timing: one_beat -> \property beatLength
	- bf convert-mudela

************

pl 4.uu1
	- input/test/ \property fixes.
	- gcc 2.95 fix

pl 4.hwn1
	- Break_align_engraver,
	break align order from  \property breakAlignOrder
	- junked Score_priority_engraver
	- moved Time_description into Timing_translator
	- use properties for timing, see input/test/timing.fly
	* removed \cadenza ; now use \property Score.timing
	* \property measurePosition
	* \property measureLength
	* \property currentBarNumber
	- Note_name_engraver , \context NoteNames


pl 4.jcn1
	- junked some chord guessing code
	- bf: lookup size (-1) for chord-name accidentals
	- bf: ly2dvi's MFINPUTS setting

*************
pl 2.jcn3
	- chords:
	  * Chord is item
	  * junked TeX hacking
	  * configurable with styled strings from scm
	  * fixes: dim, /no X, tonic != C

pl 2.jcn2
	- chords from  scm 


pl 3.hwn2
	- visibility-lambdas into default elt properties SCM.
	- clef types in SCM
	- verticalDirection properties now in SCM.

pl 3.hwn1
	- move position_i_ into Staff_symbol_referencer
	- move dir_ into Directional_element baseclass

****************

pl 2.hwn1
	- bf: dynamic style.
	- prepare to move dir_ into SCM. 

pl 2.jcn2
	- chord fixes: 
	   * inversion request: no inversion guessing for chord entry
	   * bass request: c/+b to add bass note not part of chord
	   * -dim modifier works on all thirds
	   * colon iso dash as tonic/modifier-additions separator
	   * C:m5- displays as "Cdim"
	   * C:m5-7- displays as "Co"

pl 2.jcn1
	- moved bracket vars to params
	- reverted broken lilypond-devel

*************
pl 1.uu1
	- David's patches:
	* mfplain.mp detection
	* Graphical_element::common_refpoint() robuster.
	* fixes for mudela-mode.el
	- Dirk's patches:
	* key signature placement,
	* tied accidentals.

pl 1.hwn2
	- extra-offset elt property.
	- junked Chord_tremolo

pl 1.hwn1
	- changed calling convention for {get,set,remove}_elt_property()
	- rm'd some mutopia examples.

*******
pl 0.hwn2,1
      - Generic properties and Property_engraver. Moved most of the
properties.

0.lu1
	- resurrected midi2ly

0.jcn1
	- bf: lyrics lexer
	- reverted mup2ly revert

pl 3.uu1:
	- frontport of 1.2.17 patches.

**********

1.3.0:

pl 15.hwn2
	- loads of bfs.

pl x.jcn3
	- another workaround: reset buffer state for scm_ftell ()
	- workaround for broken scm_ftell ()

pl 15.hwn1
	- \properties are now SCM s, junk Scalar type
	- use SCM for strings in parser.
	- Moment derived from Rational. Moment may be smobified.

pl 15.jcn4
	- direct #... to scm parser  (Thanks to Gary Houston)


