@c -*- coding: utf-8; mode: texinfo; -*-
@ignore
    Translation of GIT committish: FILL-IN-HEAD-COMMITTISH

    When revising a translation, copy the HEAD committish of the
    version that you are working on.  See TRANSLATION for details.
@end ignore

@c not happy in texi2html??!  -gp
@c \input texinfo
@setfilename newweb.info
@settitle GNU LilyPond New Website
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en

@include macros.itexi


@c dunno what's necessary for good info+pdf docs.  -gp
@c ************************************* CUT ***************
@c @afourpaper


@c  Keep this here, since it pertains to the direntry below.
@ignore
Distributions will want to install lilypond.info in postinstall, doing:

    install-info --info-dir=/usr/share/info out[-www]/lilypond.info

  * Prepend GNU for dir, must be unique.

  * Do not list the `lilypond' node at toplevel, so that `info lilypond'
    goes to Top.

  * List all commands in direntry.

@c  * lilypond: (lilypond/lilypond)Running LilyPond.      Invoking the
@c    LilyPond  program.
@end ignore

@c FIXME: hack, again uncertain about what's actually needed. -gp
@node Top
@top GNU LilyPond --- Website
@ignore

@ifnottex
@c @node Top
@c @top GNU LilyPond --- New Website
@chapheading The music typesetter
@c HJJ: Info needs `@top', which is a synonym for `@unnumbered' in TeX.
@end ifnottex


@ifhtml
@ifclear bigpage
This document is also available as a
@uref{source/Documentation/user/lilypond.pdf,PDF} and as
@uref{source/Documentation/user/lilypond-big-page.html,one big page}.
@end ifclear
@ifset bigpage
This document is also available as a
@uref{source/Documentation/user/lilypond.pdf,PDF} and as a
@uref{source/Documentation/user/lilypond/index.html,HTML indexed multiple pages}.
@end ifset
@end ifhtml


@finalout

@titlepage
@title LilyPond
@subtitle The music typesetter
@titlefont{New Website}
@author The LilyPond development team

Copyright @copyright{} 1999--2008 by the authors

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections.
A copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU
Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation

@vskip 20pt

For LilyPond version 
@end titlepage

@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 1999--2008 by the authors

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections.
A copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU
Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying

@ifnottex
This file documents GNU LilyPond.

Copyright 1999--2008 by the authors

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections.
A copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU
Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end ifnottex

@ifnottex
For more information about how this fits with the other

@cindex web site
@cindex URL

More information can be found at
@uref{http://@/www@/.lilypond@/.org/}.  The website contains on-line copies
of this and other documentation.

@end ignore

@c ************************************* CUT END ***************


@divId{pageHeader}
@heading LilyPond

... music notation for everyone
@divEnd

@c @imageId{cmws,web-clef-g-eight-alpha.png,Catchy Musical Web Snippet}
@imageId{lilylogo,double-lily-modified2.png,LilyPond logo}
@c @im ageId{cmws,web-snippet-alpha.png,Catchy Musical Web Snippet}

@divId{quickSummary}
@subheading What is LilyPond?

LilyPond is an open-source music engraving program, devoted to
producing the highest-quality sheet music possible.  We bring the
aesthetics of traditionally engraved music to computer printouts.

@divClass{align-right}
Read more in our @ref{Introduction}!
@divEnd
@divEnd


@divId{news}
@include news-front.itexi

@divClass{float-right}
(@ref{Old news})
@divEnd

@divEnd


@divId{latestVersion}
@subheading Quick links

@c TODO: javascript to detect OS and suggest download?

@subsubheading Stable

@ref{Download, Download 2.12.3}

@ref{Manuals, Manuals 2.12.3}

@subsubheading Unstable

@ref{Development, Download 2.13.2}

@ref{Development, Manuals 2.13.2}

@divEnd


@divClass{hide}
@menu
* Introduction::     Start here to creating sheet music.
* Download::         Get LilyPond.
* Manuals::          Read The Fine Manuals (RTFM).
* Community::        Contact other users.
@end menu
@divEnd
@c @end ifnottex

@contents


@include introduction.itexi
@include download.itexi
@include manuals.itexi
@include community.itexi

@bye

