[Note to uninitiated readers.  This is a Q&A document that explains
what to watch out for when submitting scores for the Mutopia project.
The Mutopia project is an effort to accumulate an archive of sheet
music that is in the public domain.  The project should be similar to
the Gutenberg project.

We will be using music typesetting software to produce the software.
The project will only accept music for composers that have passed into
the PD.  The sole remaining problem is caused by the editorial
changes.  A recent edition may contain editorial amendments that are
not in the PD, so we cannot simply copy the music from recent
editions.]



What is copyright?

Copyright is a legal system that protects the expressions of ideas.
It was originally conceived to foster development of art and
knowledge.

Copyright law gives "owners" of the expressions the right to restrict
reproductions of these expressions and collect fees.  In this way they
can earn a living.  For example, a poet may restrict xeroxing and
public performances of his poems, and demand a fee for print for
prints and performances.

After some time ---for most forms of expression, this is 70 years
after the author died--- the work goes into the public domain, which
means that all restrictions are lifted.  You can print, perform and
modify the works as much as you like.

Copyright law is internationalised.  In most countries the conditions
from the Berne convention have been adopted.




How does copyright work for music scores?

Let's analyze how a printed score  is produced:

1.  The composer composes music.

2.  An editor edits the music, based on the composer's manuscript and
on other editions.

3.  An engraver lays out the editor's product.

As you can see, there are three individuals, whose expressions are
protected by copyright law.  Since we are interested in the scores
that are in the PD.

The copyright on the music itself passes into the PD 70 years after
the death of the composer.  (Or XXXX years after publication if the
work is published posthumously.)

The copyright on the editorial changes pass in to the PD 70 years
after death of the editor, or XXX years after publication.  Depending on YYY

The copyright of the engraver is of no interest to us, since we will
not reproduce any of the layout.



What are editorial changes?






How do I find out what changes might be copyrighted?

You cannot copyright something you did not create yourself.  So if you
find the same editorial changes across different editions it is
unlikely that it is copyrighted.




Urtexts?



Scores that are not marked with dates?


