
=head1 HISTORY 


Please note that this all happened when I wasn't around yet.  If you
think that I am a biased, unfair, predisposed hypocrite, then don't
bother flaming me;  I already know that.

The GNU Music project is a project which aims to create free software
for music printing and composing.  It was started in november '92 by a
core team of four members (Bryan Ford <baford@cs.utah.edu>, David Linn
<drl@vuse.vanderbilt.edu>, Francois Pinard <pinard@iro.umontreal.ca>,
Neil Jerram <nj104@cus.cam.ac.uk>) and in January '93 Robert Strandh
<Robert.Strandh@labri.u-bordeaux.fr> joined.

After serious disputes with Robert Strandh and the FSF staff in '94,
the project core team got divided. The development efforts of GMP
stopped.

Independently, I (HWN) started LilyPond. When I showed it to
RMS, he was very enthousiastic about having LilyPond in the GNU
project. I subsequently learned about the GNU Music project, and
contacted them.  

What was left of the GMP (Robert Strandh) and us, LilyPond people,
agreed that cooperation would be desirable. Although merging of both
efforts was and is technically infeasible, we did decide that LilyPond
should also be part of the GNU Music project.

Only later did I discover the previous quarrels about the GMP-"take
1". To show that I am aware of the history, and to make sure nobody
gets me wrong or is angry at me because I stole a project or a
project's name, I wrote this note.

In summary, LilyPond is now the only substantial embodiment of the GNU
Music Project, and it is part of the GNU project.

For completeness' sake, I will mention the other efforts  here:

=over 4

=item G Sharp, http://dept-info.labri.u-bordeaux.fr/~strandh/Gsharp

An alpha version notation editor for X in Scheme. Source available on
request from Robert Strandh.

=item GNU music, 

An alpha version of a music editing system with Musictex
output. Pretest versions of GNU Music (v0.3) can still be obtained from
Francois Pinard.

=back

This history note is probably biased in some way, because I wrote it.
The rest of this document is also entirely mine, and is not meant to
reflect anyone else's opinion.
